# DiCIPHR-Pipeline

## Running the Pipeline
To run the pipeline, follow the steps below. Ensure that you have the necessary permissions and resources to execute the commands.
 
## Step 1: Clone the Repository
First, clone the repository to your local machine. You can do this using the following command:
 
git clone https://github.com/SaiKrishnaChaitanya24/DiCIPHR-Pipeline.git
 
## Step 2: Build the Singularity Container
Build the diciphr_pipeline.sif Singularity container using the provided Singularity definition file. This ensures you have the necessary environment to run the pipeline. Use the following command:
 
sbatch --cpus-per-task=4 --mem=32G --wrap="singularity build --notest ./DiCIPHR-Pipeline/diciphr_pipeline.sif ./DiCIPHR-Pipeline/Singularity.def"

## Step 3: Test the Singularity Container

Ensure that the Singularity container was built correctly by testing it with the following commands:

singularity test ./DiCIPHR-Pipeline/diciphr_pipeline.sif 
 
## Step 4: Create Output Directory
Create a directory to store the output files generated by the pipeline. Use the command below to create the output directory:
 
mkdir -p {output_path}
 
## Step 5: Run the Pipeline
Reverse PE Scan Available
-s, -i, -d, -t, -p, -T, -o, -z, -e (needs to be 1), -B (needs to be 3 for running the whole DTI Pipeline) (-z can be 0,1,2, suggested to use 2.)

Example Command to Run When Reverse PE Scan is Available (when slurm is available)
Note - Create output path before running the following command using mkdir –p {Output_Path}

sbatch --cpus-per-task=4 --job-name=Combined_ --time=2-00:00:00 --mem=256G --wrap="apptainer run --no-home --bind {Data_Path_Where_Files_are_Available}:/Input --bind {Output_Path}:/output ./DiCIPHR-Pipeline/diciphr_pipeline.sif -s {Subject_Name} -i /input/{T1_File_Name} -d /input/{DWI_File_Name} -o /output -z {mode} -p {PE_DIR} -t /input/{ReversePE_File_Path} -T {Readout_Time} -e {mode} -B 3"
{mode} - needs to be replaced with corresponding value.
{PE_DIR} - can be either AP, LR, IS
{Readout_Time} - can be 0.064 or any similar value
Note – When slurm is not available run the command in quotes (“”) without sbatch.

Reverse PE Scan Not Available
-s, -i, -d, -o, -z, -e (can either be 0 or 2), -B (needs to be 3 for running the whole DTI Pipeline) (-e suggested to use is 2) (-z can be 0,1,2, suggested to use 2.)

Note - Create output path before running the following command using mkdir –p {Output_Path}

sbatch --cpus-per-task=4 --job-name=Combined_ --time=2-00:00:00 --mem=256G --wrap="apptainer run --no-home --bind {Data_Path_Where_Files_are_Available}:/Input --bind {Output_Path}:/output ./DiCIPHR-Pipeline/diciphr_pipeline.sif -s {Subject_Name} -i /input/{T1_File_Name} -d /input/{DWI_File_Name} -o /output -z {mode} -e {mode} -B 3"
{mode} - needs to be replaced with corresponding value.
Note – When slurm is not available run the command in quotes (“”) without sbatch.
